### Publishing an event 

#### Prerequisites 

- `nostr-tools` // npm install nostr-tools
- `websocket-polyfill` // npm install websocket-polyfill

#### Explanation 

Previously: 

1. We've generated our private key
2. Derived its NIP-19 equivalent
3. We derived the public key from this private key
4. We encoded the public key according to NIP-19 specifications
5. We defined our event template
6. We signed the event with our private key

Now we are going to connect to a relay, and using the keypair that we generated, publish a note of kind 1 to a relay. 

We used wss://nostr.wine in our previous exercises, but we found out later on that it only allows posting for paid members. 

So for this exercise, we will be using a different relay: 'wss://nos.lol'. Feel free to use a different relay. You can find a comprehensive list over at [nostr.info](https://nostr.info). 

The code that we will be adding is:

*index.js*

```
(async () => {
  try {
    const relay = await Relay.connect('wss://nos.lol', { WebSocket });
    await relay.publish(signedEvent);
    console.log('Event published successfully.');
    relay.close();
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('Error publishing event:', error);
  }
})();
```

-   This is an asynchronous immediately-invoked function expression (IIFE). It allows for the use of `await` within its scope, enabling asynchronous operations to be performed in a linear, more readable manner.
-   `const relay = await Relay.connect('wss://nos.lol', { WebSocket })`
    - This line attempts to establish a connection to a Nostr relay located at the WebSocket URL `wss://nos.lol`.
    - The `{ WebSocket }` part indicates that it uses the WebSocket protocol for this connection.
    - The `await` keyword is used to wait for the connection to be established before moving on to the next line.
-   `await relay.publish(signedEvent)`
    - Once the connection is established, this line publishes the previously signed event to the relay.
    - The `await` keyword ensures that the script waits for the publication process to complete before moving on.
-   `console.log('Event published successfully.')`
    - If the event is successfully published, this message is logged to the console.
-   `relay.close()`
    - After publishing the event, the connection to the relay is closed.
-   The `try...catch` block is used to handle any errors that might occur during this process. If an error is thrown at any point within the `try` block, execution is passed to the `catch` block, which logs the error message to the console.

### How do we find the note we just made? 

This is actually a good question. 

The code that we just executed, only outputs the following: 

```
NIP-19 Encoded Public Key (npub): 

npub1cyck7vzdczt2vdauwnzy4dlpk6nxf7jx0p98999pd6eh459yqs2stugmk4

Event published successfully.
```

We can open our favorite nostr client, and paste in the `npub` in the url, but if the client does not use the relay we published to, we would still not be able to find our specific note. 

**So, how do we find our note?**

### Noteid 

The `noteid`, in the context of the Nostr protocol, is the unique identifier for a note or event. It's typically a hash value generated from the event's content and metadata, ensuring each event has a distinct identifier. This identifier is crucial for referencing, retrieving, and interacting with specific events within the Nostr network.

### How is a `noteid` Generated?

-   A `noteid` is usually computed from the event's data, which includes its type (`kind`), content, timestamp (`created_at`), tags, and the public key of the creator.
-   This computation often involves cryptographic hashing, ensuring that the `noteid` is unique to its event. Any change in the event's content or metadata would result in a different `noteid`.

### How to Find the `noteid` of an Event?

When you sign an event using `finalizeEvent`, it generates the `noteid` as part of the process. The `noteid` is the unique identifier that you would use to reference this event in the Nostr network. Here's how you can modify your existing code to log the `noteid` of the signed event:

Running our script `index.js` in the `nostr-app` folder, we get:

```
> node index.js
Raw Private Key: 6c1741c71a33b9c7a9bbf0ca2243d9bd79388e7d2c397d9a61dc0020fa7c03c9
NIP-19 Encoded Private Key (nsec): nsec1dst5r3c6xwuu02dm7r9zys7eh4un3rna9suhmxnpmsqzp7nuq0ys8cquxm
Raw Public Key: 44b363ad39511887a79a4f73de805c11502eb81ec9342bbf337e87d3be64a34a
NIP-19 Encoded Public Key (npub): npub1gjek8tfe2yvg0fu6faeaaqzuz9gzawq7ey6zh0en06ra80ny5d9qz03raa
Signed Event: {
  kind: 1,
  created_at: 1705579177,
  tags: [],
  content: 'Hello World! This is a kind 1 note from the Simple Nostr Tutorial Series',
  pubkey: '44b363ad39511887a79a4f73de805c11502eb81ec9342bbf337e87d3be64a34a',
  id: 'e276d42c2ab4299be1458e67dd5159a2ebbd1153036e6e424f47ba860f97fb33',
  sig: 'b1e4ab5034e3e6edcdfa5c63a3e70c988985cdd1d883faef522a0191a259e506a46a083c340ea7b28988b25f67cb229707baed95eba57c1758f92aa2f52e3d69',
  [Symbol(verified)]: true
}
Event published successfully.
```
Thus, the noteid is:

`id: 'e276d42c2ab4299be1458e67dd5159a2ebbd1153036e6e424f47ba860f97fb33'`
